[ [
]
[
- I was gonna get better.
- Sisak Stumpden, poster number three, Robocop.
With gas Schondimantia.
- And Robocop.
- Gas starting.
- A very realistic Robocop.
He's got some weight to'em dude feel.
He's all metal.
- Holy shit, that's way heavier though.
- Yeah totally dude.
That's substantial.
- This is couldn't he have more obvious weak points
on his angles than that?
- Like literally you want to shoot.
- He literally can have been figuratively
and it kills you.
- Yeah.
- Or just like rope him up around there.
- Robocop, you gotta step it up.
- Yeah I can take the, oh I forgot.
Fuck.
- There's a secret door.
- There's a lot of his legs.
- He can't run a little more.
- I was thinking I'm a weirdest.
- He's skiing too.
(laughing)
- Boom.
- He's a little.
- Style, spare pistol in there.
- Or does he keep his condoms?
(laughing)
- Playing with the video, Sam.
- The Greg Circuit and video mixer.
- Yeah can't you see it?
- You guys can almost imagine what this looks like.
Yeah it's fucking hypnotic dude.
I'll patch that up while I'm passionate stuff.
Just start like malting things into it
so that it's being like hit with the sounds.
- Have you played with any of the LVX?
- Yeah.
- I have not.
One of my friends, her and I hang out
and I make music and she brings over
a modular video stuff and it's fucking amazing.
- That's cool.
- Super cool.
I'm really a lot of fun to play
'cause you can just get in-
- In-between frequencies, video frequencies.
It's really beautiful.
And I have a projector in my room
so I just protect it all over the giant wall.
It's fucking wow.
It's amazing to watch.
- I do not have any of that stuff.
Yeah this is my first entry into video synthesis.
I just got the Ming mecha system
and a circa bent Panasonic mixer from BPMC
that I just run it into.
- Very distracted.
- Yeah like I said, it'll just pull you in man.
It's hypnotic.
- It's like a mirror of my brain activity right.
(laughing)
- Is it the Klingon symbol?
- I don't know if anyone else has anything.
- That's the sprite doing something.
- That show last night was fun.
- You should just mention that would be,
it would be wrong to not mention the show.
- Yeah I think, yeah.
- I think Dave should mention it.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- I don't want to, it was your baby.
- It seemed to go well.
That was dark tonic.
(laughing)
- That's what I want to say.
- Close that chapter.
- All right.
(laughing)
- Moving on.
- It's always cool to see people who have seen play
for 10 years continually push it.
It's, you know, a lot of people do not continually
push what they do.
- That's awesome.
To see Pete get crazy for a second.
- Mm hmm.
- Throw up the BCR out and play it's at 280 BPM.
Crazy shit.
- I wish he did more of that.
Like I could've listened to that for another hour at least.
- Yeah.
- So let's talk about good things this year.
Only fucking good things.
Or shitty modules.
Nothing else.
- Yeah, yeah.
- I mean, we'll get to the sheet, yeah.
Say let's do the positive stuff.
- Positive?
- Yeah.
We're on a positive note talking about the show.
- Fair enough.
- A lot of us I think are using new shit in the show.
Like I was playing for the show.
I managed to work in the trash master.
The sink, a tur, itter.
I would have like pronounced it a powerful combination
of noise and shit.
- How were you using it?
- Basically just wanted it to be a noise box in my module.
You know what I mean?
And it worked, I have the little light plane controller
strip in there that I was using to control the pitch
on the sink.
And then I was mainly tweaking the settings
on the trash master.
And every once in a while, it mainly tweaked the like fold
and the morph on the sink.
And it's a lot of tweakability.
- I got Dave questions too.
I wanna make you talk as much as possible.
- Oh, no.
All right.
I just wanted to know how you manage your patches live.
Do you do like little ones that I'm just curious
like how people deal with that?
I think I get a sense of how Greg deals with it a little.
But you get a lot of variety.
So I don't know if you have like little blocks
that you play with or if it's like one.
- It's most of the little blocks.
And then I use the planer to sort of like,
that's the main thing.
- Oh, that's true.
- It's like going through the different things.
And so like I try to make stuff that works well.
If it's totally in, you know, just using just one
of the four channels or blends well with other things.
And I don't really do too much.
Once I get the oscillator set and filter,
just fucking with filters and like cut off how much,
see like if I have CV going to it,
like how much CV they're not going into it,
especially on the wasp.
If I crank that up, that's what we need to do.
Like really like tweaky sort of sounds
that I'm looking for.
- All your beats were RM1X.
- Ideas one and then RM1X.
- Okay.
- A vampire should never touch anything on that shelf.
- It's like a lot of, a lot of courts.
- I didn't see in courts, I'm seeing gemstones.
- I bet if you swallowed it,
you would gain an ability until it exited.
(laughing)
- I would become immortal, I'm pretty sure.
It's like temporary and mortality.
- Yeah, we're just not, we're just kind of
what we have, already have.
- I forget what the first thing was.
- Yeah, it was deep.
It was a deep cut.
- It was as deep as we're getting.
- What do we do?
We have questions for Sean.
(buzzing)
- We should grill him about something.
- Not about music, right?
- I would ask, are you sequencing your modular
with RM1X?
- Yes, yeah.
- Do you have any delay on that thing
to go into all that stuff?
- I think that's the second one,
the best things with RM1X is like that.
- I do, but.
- I was wondering how that would affect the modular
workflow with it.
- It doesn't work as well as I want.
It may just be the limitation of the mid-to-the-cV
that I've actually been looking into something
that would handle a little bit more gracefully
or do something cool with it.
Or it may just be the way that I'm using it.
- The R in this maybe.
- Yeah, I think that would open that combination
and that would be a great bridge between the two
because it is, that's the best thing about the RM1X
and if you can't use it to its full capability,
I'm not gonna get as much out of it.
- It's like another thing why I don't see
about a lot of other devices
that just don't have mid-to-lays built-in.
- The mid-box is the only other one that I know of, I think.
And you can even like pitch the delay, like the mid-to,
like over time, which creates like all these arpeggiated
like sea ones and it's sweet.
- Wow, that sounds great.
- Yeah, yeah, I love that thing.
- Have you been using that and singing that up
to the modular stuff?
- Oh hell yeah.
- And it does it well?
- Oh yeah.
- Oh okay.
- Yeah.
- What a mid-to-cv-out of a Kilpatrick, okay 1600.
- Yeah, those are sweet and you can get them for like,
they used to be like 400 bucks, but I got mine for like 200.
- Oh wow.
- I can't get them used for not much
'cause it's just their sexier, mid-to-cv-inter races,
but it's got like fucking two CV outs,
like four triggers and four gates or something.
- Oh, nice.
- It's like ridiculous.
- How do you actually set the channels?
Is it just like,
- Oh, it's got learn, it's got learn, it's got learn.
- You switch it up like kind of nose type thing
and there you go.
- Yeah.
- The one I have is just basically
the first note it gets.
That's the channel it's going in.
- Are you doing live sequencing?
Is that part of what you got going on
with the Octatrack live?
- I'm most of this pre-programmed.
I leave room to change things on the fly.
- I don't know.
- Yeah.
- I like to give a little bit of a live feel.
- Yeah, it's impossible.
- So I can entertain myself too.
- Up there.
- I mean, like you were doing a lot of changes on the rhythm.
- Yeah.
- With like the different pads and stuff.
- Some of your playing.
- Popping things in and out really quickly.
- Do you load up like different projects
when you're playing on the rhythm
or you just keep one like project?
- I have a lot of projects.
I mean, I have,
I mean, the Octatrack has 16 songs.
I just have to change up the rhythm
like halfway through the set.
- Oh yeah.
- Or something like that because it only takes eight, I think.
- Yep.
- But yeah, I have 16 songs,
always at like my fingertips, which is kind of cool.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
- But I said things up, some things up,
I have a lot of CC controls about stuff,
but then I leave a lot of stuff open
so I can actually play live too.
- Right.
- 'Cause it's hard to have your hands.
Maybe we're at the same time.
- Yeah.
- Trying to get things though.
Automate some things that leave a lot of room for me
to play with other stuff.
- Like we were saying about two drum machines,
you know, using two live can be like kind of tricky
if you've already got sequencer and synths,
you're kind of manage like creates a split,
you're not bringing it to kind of like to keep it to one
of possible and then make some loops or something.
- I'm definitely going back and forth
and I'm checking with Mulan,
I'm just like switching my hands back and forth.
What not?
'Cause I set everything up so I can go in and out of
so many different ways, some patterns,
I'm between all that, so it can never be the same twice.
- And the virus, how is that, how are you working in that?
Do you play that live at all?
Like through the octave?
- I mean, I record my patterns into there
and then I just go into a lot of the settings
and stuff like that.
- Yeah, that's a lot of different.
- The filters and FM stuff and they're the most
and then some of the LFOs as well.
- Nice.
- Again, some things are pre-CC control
and then I leave just like a few things,
like pads or some other stuff I can manipulate as I go.
Nice, what not?
Nadding effects as I go as well, so.
- It's kind of like what I try to do with the modular,
I guess, like mostly, you know, for descent stuff
and you know, noisy stuff, it's some processing.
Like I was gonna try to do like beat programming
with the modular this time around.
Like you said, it was just too much.
- Yeah, I had too much going on.
Like I had that, I had the rhythm and I had the thras
and I was like, this is just all over the fucking place.
I need to streamline this down a bit.
- How many dimensions can you dive into
and still be sane at the same time?
- Yeah, 'cause I figured I like,
I really fucking love like jamming on the rhythm.
Like, you know what I mean?
But like, I feel like when I do that,
the set just needs to be that.
- You know what I mean?
- Yeah, that's all I do.
- I figured out like, now I have like two ways
to perform live, I guess.
You know what I mean?
One is like rhythm slash modular,
with the modular doing percussive shit with it.
Or modular doing synthy stuff and noise
and the thras handling most of the beats, you know?
It's like one or the other.
Like I couldn't figure out a way to do both and make it work.
- Yeah, it's a good segue way for you to play three shows
in as many days with a thras.
How are you feeling it?
- I like it.
You know, I had some buyers and more
when I first got it
'cause it just seemed like so simple of advice.
And an expensive device, you know?
It was like all pretty and rainbow colors and shit.
And I was like, eh,
it's probably not gonna work out for me.
I felt like it was gonna be too DJ-ish, you know what I mean?
But I updated to the latest firmware.
That added a lot of shit that I really do.
Like that implemented the LFOs,
shit ton more effects, master effects,
more functionality with the MIDI,
just like a whole bunch of shit.
Like it still doesn't feel complete.
It's there enough, you know what I mean?
Where I can use it live now and have fun with it.
I like it a lot.
Like I dumped all kinds of shit into there.
Loops from the modular, stuff from the rhythm.
Shunks from tracks that are on the record.
Like basically so I could remix that shit live,
you know, which is what I was trying to do.
- Do you record into it or do you dump?
- No, I just dump.
I put everything into a folder
and then you can connect it right to the computer via USB.
It sees it as a drive.
You just toss all that shit in there.
- Oh, cool.
- Yeah, you can do it in seconds.
You're gonna do it with a USB stick.
You don't take it on the top of it.
Like you just.
- So it's simple like Dr. Track.
- Yeah.
- But the rhythm's a pain in the ass to get all the sounds out.
- Oh, dude.
- I try to get crazy.
- And you can't get them back out, electron.
- Yeah.
- But you cannot take them and they're like,
oh, you better have all those samples.
And then like, you don't sloppy.
I just throw stuff like your sound.
I put it on the pad.
- Yeah.
One thing I also like about Dr. Track is if you got
all these samples in there
and then you realize you can put a little setting in there
and have them get rid of all the samples
you're not using enough.
- Oh yeah.
- I wish I did the rhythm.
'Cause there's like,
I can't remember every little sound I use everywhere.
And I'm sure there's a lot of them I don't use in.
- Yeah.
- I've gone through every pattern
and looked at every sample being used.
And it took me like an hour and it made me mad.
- I don't wanna do that.
I like it.
- Dr. Track did it.
- Dr. Track just, just you click on that thing
and it raises all the samples you're not using.
It's amazing.
- That is something computers and electronics are good at.
Making a human do it is pretty silly.
- Yeah.
- I'm lazy.
- It's very good.
- I'm not doing that.
- Yeah, basically it puts it into drive mode.
Like there's an option in settings.
You hook it up the USB, enter drive mode
and then computer just sees it.
You can take whatever you need off of it,
put whatever onto it.
You know what I mean?
And then you just exit drive mode and it's just there.
You can browse.
It's just like battery.
You know what I mean?
You select a track, you browse through your folder structure.
You put whatever audio file you want on whatever track.
And it's super, super quick.
- Can you tag stuff on there with like names?
You'd be like, this is a pad.
You did it with color as I saw.
- Yeah.
- I was trying to organize shit with color.
No, you cannot add tags or anything just yet.
So whatever the file is named is what you get.
So like I came up with a little system
like I put like BPM of the sound dash,
like whatever song it's related to.
And then like dash one or dash two or whatever.
So I was doing shit like, you know, 146 dash pad one.
You know, just stupid shit like that through a reference.
'Cause you can see it on the screen, which is nice.
You know what I mean?
That's one thing I really like about it
is the big ass fucking screens.
- You actually organize things.
- I tried.
- I tried to help.
My shit's a fucking mess.
None of the words go with what the sample actually means.
Sounds like I just make up something like a (mumbles)
and I just stop wave.
- Yeah, I get real OCD with that shit.
- I can't need to.
- Yeah, I can't do that.
- I need to do that.
- But I have like a few machines where you can like tag stuff
and I almost never use it.
'Cause it's not like, I'm just gonna make it generally
or like I know what I have.
I'm not gonna be like, oh pads, let me scroll through
the, you know, congas or some shit.
- Well then you get to pad one, pad two.
- Yeah.
- So I had 23, pad 36.
It's like okay.
- Pad 36 is a good one though.
- It usually works out for me.
- Then you feel silly like trying to describe the pads.
- Yeah.
- And then it's just like squiggle ocean.
Like okay, this is not gonna make sense.
- And it's always what I move your in
when you're already editing the sample,
which doesn't make sense later on.
And you're like what the hell is I,
you should like describe that.
- Yeah, as far as organizing shit on there goes,
it's like you said I'm doing it all by color right now.
You can color the tracks, whatever you want.
And so I came up with a system to like colorize
what I could combo into like tracks that would combo well,
tracks that are meant to loop and tracks
that are just meant to be one shots.
But you can't color the scenes or the patterns yet.
Like it's just, it automatically assigns a color to it
which is really fucking frustrating.
So like what I was doing was leaving empty patterns
in between like the songs, you know.
And just so I had like a visual reference,
but if they add that option to colorize that,
that would be extremely helpful.
- I like that coloration option.
That'd be cool because I mean,
with Dr. Track could be something nice with something like that
because I have different samples.
I would need a color on this one.
Like so I know what I'm actually pushing by
because I have no idea.
I just wanna use so many sounds.
So I just have to wing it every time.
I would totally fuck that up.
- You know what I mean?
Like I would be able to do it like I just,
if I don't have visual references, I just lose my place.
- Yeah.
- So I do it often.
I just make them mistake twice.
Make them mistake twice.
- I made a couple mistakes last night.
- You don't have no idea what's going on.
I wish you had a delay on things.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- I love that accent.
- It has a similar button things like on the tier eight.
- Yeah.
- Which I was noticing too.
- They feel, yeah.
Like identical to the tier eight says bottom was,
that brings me to a minor complaint actually.
Some of the ones on the end are a little,
not too responsive and that kinda sucks.
- Are they meant to be played with world's buttons?
- No, I mean, you hit on to change scenes
and change patterns.
Which is how I play it.
I didn't use the Oranger mode at all
'cause it's too limited in my opinion.
It was just kinda frustrating
and you cannot set up pattern changing.
So you have to do it manually.
Which is what I was trying to do last night.
Like I was trying to be on beat,
switching patterns manually,
punching shit in and the buttons all the way on the left
and all the way on the right.
Kind of like, I don't wanna say sticky,
but like not that responsive, you know what I mean?
That's kind of frustrating.
So I don't know if that's a design flaw
or maybe I just need to break it in more or something.
But that was a little frustrating.
- Do you like a step edit,
like all your patterns in there?
Do you like tap 'em in?
Or how do you like make stuff on there generally?
- Right now I'm using it mainly like you would at Elton Live.
- Oh, okay, that's right.
- Yeah, loops and then I layer the loops, yeah.
So pretty much almost everything starts on the one
or like the third, you know what I mean?
Like, and then it loops for 64 steps or whatever.
Like what I was doing was dropping shit in there
at the tempo it's meant to be disabling time stretching
and then setting the tempo, the master tempo to half that.
- That way I can get more time out of it
'cause there is some time restrictions on that thing.
Like you can't have more than like,
I think it's a 30 second long sample
or anything longer than your 64 step.
So like to do longer stuff within a scene
and like be able to transition
and so have some things going in the background
to the next pattern, I would like expand it like that.
- Robo-coffisturizing me.
- You're gonna give me a little fight eye.
- That's kind of what I'm hoping that the bit box
will let me do.
- Play longer samples that I can have alongside stuff.
- Like bit box seems to have no restriction.
Like I was reading into it after you told me about it
and like you can record up to four fucking hours on that.
- You have something?
- It's like 24 or 48 or something.
- Yeah, that's insane.
Like I was looking at the functionality of it.
It seems a lot like the teraz and modular form, you know?
And it's pretty fucking cool.
Yeah, I'm excited.
I'm excited for you.
I don't wanna see how it works, you know?
But it looks like the same deal, man.
Like, you know, you tap a pad, you sign in a sample
and you can play it with the screen or whatever.
You can trigger it.
- Can you have really long samples in that?
Does it handle it?
- Yeah, you're in the bit box yet.
- In the teraz and no.
- Teraz, teraz, okay.
So it's like Dr. Track a little bit too.
- Well, Dr. Track handles that shit better than this.
- I haven't actually dumped it really long.
Have you all done this?
- Yeah, I don't just all these DJ years on songs.
I think I've never done that.
- I know people who did and like it just,
I don't know if you change the BPM at all
then you're time stretching everything
and it's not that greatest time stretching.
Like it could be good, but I don't know
if I want a full track coming through.
- I'm interested in just going to a problem with that.
I'm just doing some songs if everyone just DJ my songs.
- But yeah, if you were to keep like patterns with BPMs
or something associated and there's like
have your tracks the way you want,
like I could see that working.
- Do you use it in the flex mode or the other mode?
There's two modes.
- Oh, the static mode.
- The static mode.
- Yeah.
- The static mode, right?
- Yeah, I'd usually use the flex mode.
- Well, I just sold it.
- Yeah, what is it?
- I think the photostatic pulls right from the CF card.
- Yeah.
- Which is better for the longer samples.
- Yeah, and you can not like,
if you do start point modulation on the static ones,
it will not be able to catch up on the CF card.
But if you have it in memory,
you can just go nuts and do like, you know, crazy,
like if you're mancing a windowing.
- You want it instead.
- Yes.
- Gotcha.
- All right, flex.
- Or flex.
- The static will be the one where the CF card can't keep.
- Okay, okay, okay.
- I'm already gonna fucking buy one again, I know it.
- Don't do it.
- He's gonna do this.
He's gonna do this.
Just wait, they're kind of with the third one
or second one, not third one.
- Yeah.
- You're gonna get to the second one before
- Yeah, but I mean.
- They better come out with the second one.
- I can't even keep them in stock.
Like so many people use them.
Cool bolster those effects up a bit.
- Yeah, seriously.
- You can see a little more generous screen on that too.
You know, it works, it does the trick with that.
- That's that screen on the ice.
- Yeah, that was really nice.
- I don't see how's the touchscreen working out live.
- I mean, I didn't have any problems with it,
but I'm trying to avoid touching it too much also.
- Oh.
- You know what I mean, like I wish I could kind of just
turn that thing off.
Reason why I was touching it,
the only live performance was to get into
different effects modes and to change the tempo.
'Cause there's no like tempo button
to hit the tempo on the screen and adjust it
with the jog wheel, which is kind of annoying.
- Looks like they're putting a looper in there or something.
- Yeah.
- Some more effects, but yeah.
- Do you ever use that pickup machines in the Octa-Car?
- I have not, I've never used it.
- There's a lot of things I never use on that.
- Yeah.
- What is it that's stuck on?
- It's like a looper, like a true like almost guitar style
like overdubbing looper thing.
- Oh, that's kind of the thing.
- You're just doing it with triggers and like reward stuff
that way.
- We do much recording straight and live
and adding it in as you're sequencing.
Ryan and I have been trying to do a lot of that stuff
and it's been failing miserly.
- Yeah, the agency is nightmare of course.
- 'Cause we're sequencing like the modular stuff
that we have to dunk back, like record it straight
into the Octa track to sequence it right away
has been a pain in the ass and it's just--
- Oh.
- Recording live has been difficult for me
and Ryan can't figure it out.
- Yeah, Ryan.
- I'm fucked.
So if you get me right off.
- We explained to the listeners here
who you were referencing.
- Oh Ryan, it's an OctaCon.
- Shout out to the OctaCon.
- Yeah, sitting off the kinda college.
- Why is he not out here right now?
- Yeah, the Octa track is just always too complex for me.
Like you said, if Ryan can't figure it out,
then I have to go--
- Just recording live.
- It's just the recording live.
- Yeah, I mean, I got the basics of it though
and I had one but I felt like there was so much in there
that I didn't understand or would use.
It was like, why the fuck do I own this thing?
You know what I mean?
- Yeah, yeah.
- It took me like, when I moved over from the arm,
our 7,000 normal next days,
to the Octa track, it took me a really weird
to figure out that damn super-
- Oh yeah, it took totally different.
- And I was just angry and I just put it away
until Matt Schultz split her eyes on one day.
He was like, no, here's what you do.
And then it all of a sudden worked for me.
- Yeah, it's all about the parts.
If you don't like, remember to save your parts
and switch your parts 'cause it won't--
- You just save the parts and then you save the patterns
and then you save the project.
It's like, push the always button
just to save the damn thing.
- Yeah dude.
- The rhythm is the same way it drives me fucking nuts.
I lost a lot of--
- I gotta save the kit before you save the things.
- Like it's all f*cked up.
- Right.
- It's always nice to turn it back on the next day.
I wanna hear the--
- Oh.
- It's all wrong.
- No, you have to, I have a total method.
I always do these over and over again, saving.
- It's one of those things, you know,
it's almost the memory at that point.
- And I know that something like,
people in the lecture are not supposed to be
bitching about forever too.
Like, no, why can't we just have like a save all function
in there, you know?
- I know, I lost a lot of shit last time I was
fucking around in the room,
except for about to do that.
And I can't see where my kit and pattern buttons are now,
because I tried to dust mine off,
and apparently the paint on those panels
are really shitty.
(laughing)
'Cause I cleaned everything with a little bit
of rubbing alcohol, dude.
Like cotton swab, rubbing alcohol.
I swear I cleaned all my--
- Wait, on your rhythm?
- Yeah.
- I was one of those sayings.
It was probably amazing to see you speak
hanging play on the octa track.
Like I was trying to do an octa track,
like I don't even notice.
- You do not track god, dude, Smith.
- Yeah.
- I want to see a show with him in basic play together.
- Oh yeah.
- You got a business show, oh, whoa.
- Yeah, the alcohol just literally--
- Like your makeup just got smeared.
- Yeah.
- Kind of rough night out.
- And according to the electron support,
that shouldn't happen if you cleaned it with rubbing alcohol.
Like, well, it did happen.
- That's not actually a support.
Just telling you something shouldn't happen after it did.
- Have you updated this thing?
- Oh yeah.
- Let's think that's so much crazy shit.
Now Ryan, I don't even do it,
touch all the stuff Ryan does it when we do our montage stuff.
- Oh yeah, the end triggers.
- All the weird fucking stuff that shit.
- There's so many crazy things it does,
and I'm just like, I can't remember all that.
- Yeah, that update,
'cause you had told me that it was coming.
And that was one of the reasons
that finally led me to buy the rhythm.
'Cause like my LXR had that shit,
and I liked that a lot.
And everything in the rhythm was appealing to me,
but the sequencer seemed like an immediate
to be able to do that type of probabilistic shit.
And when you told me that it was probably coming down the line,
I was like, fuck it.
I pulled the trigger and updated as soon as it came out, man.
- It's the shit, it's crazy.
- Yeah, it is.
- Again, like I don't even touch it,
'cause I'm trying to keep everything as simple
or trying to over-complicate certain things.
And when it sets, 'cause it's hard
when you're doing everything to remember,
oh, this one goes in more of the submenu
and pushing the other button to turn this with that.
I don't know, I can't fucking remember all that.
Things like fucking have all these notes.
I've been trying to get away from being confined by notes.
- This thing here, dude,
it's essentially eight channels of rhythm style signals.
- That thing up there, the very gate?
- Yeah, it's fun.
- I think it looks neat.
- Yeah, it's all probability sequencing.
You know what I mean?
Just like with the rhythm,
you can't do the trick conditions.
If this one triggers, this one doesn't type shit,
but you got the probability, repeat,
all this shit per step.
It's pretty nice and you get eight fucking channels of it.
- I've been staying away from getting a sequence
from my mod set up.
I don't know why I've been stubborn about that,
but just 'cause it's everything with the octetrap.
- Yeah, I do.
- But, pardon me, it wants it to be stamped a lot
but I'm just gonna have to do some other stuff as well.
- I mean, even the yarn stuff, that doesn't have,
I mean, it's called like a sequencer.
- Mm-hmm.
- I just started trying to learn that last week.
- Isn't it kind of, I had yarns for a minute,
but I didn't use the sequencer,
but wasn't it like kind of SH 101 style?
- Yeah, I think it's like eight steps.
Yeah, I mean, I love my SH 101,
I sequenced on that a lot, it's my favorite.
- I was when I had mine, yeah, I still got it.
- I fucking love that thing.
- Yeah, when I toured with my 606,
I'm trying to learn that stuff.
Or another clock of the 606 has that out
from the high tom or low tom, whatever.
Playing the sequences from the SH 101.
- You can kind of do that with the rhythm though,
it has that, what is it, it's just called
like the trigger machine or whatever.
- Oh, the impulse machine.
- Impulse machine, yeah.
So you can essentially send gates out of the outputs there
and it'll trigger.
- That's why you were doing that, right?
I thought you could post something
about doing it that method.
- Yeah, I did do it for a minute
and I was clocking with like the rim shot in there too.
Like I had a rim shot sample on one of the channels
and those clogging, but ever since the latest update,
like even if I take a channel out of the main mix
and I'm trying to just use like, you know,
the individual outs, if you know,
they're like kind of paired the individual outs,
if there's anything going on on that,
that'll come out the individual out too.
- Oh yeah, that's the weird thing.
- That's the weird thing that'll flaw
'cause it's like one analog voice.
So there are things where like,
oh, this one thing will bleed it.
The cowbell used to bleed forever.
Like if you hit this pad,
you would hit the fucking cowbell
if you had a reaver bond.
'Cause it's re-robing that too.
- And I think they did fixate,
but there's still some--
- They're working it out.
- Like in a beta?
Maybe or--
- I think there's a fix now.
- I think it's fix now.
- So I think I was still having the issue last I tried
and I just kind of gave up on individual outs
for the moment to sequence and clock shift
'cause it was just pissing me off.
- It'd be nice that this thing had more LFOs.
- Yeah, that is so--
- Sounds like the right thing to get one.
- It's like, oh.
- Well even--
- At least you could try--
- Walk tracks LFO to another.
- Yeah, I'll track it through.
- It's awesome.
I love those fucking LFOs on that thing.
- Yeah and the designer for the LFOs,
that thing's fun too.
- Yeah, the LFOs are if you had any unused LFOs
on other channels, you could just assign them
to a different channel.
So you could essentially have one channel
with like eight LFOs.
- You know what I mean?
- If you wanted, oh yeah, the LFOs are always awesome, man.
I love that thing.
- It was like, yeah, it was like a machine drum
on fucking steroids, dude.
- It was still a machine drum.
- Did the trigger out stuff like way better.
'Cause it would let you set the gate length,
which I don't think this does.
And it's like, that'd be cool,
a bit of a cop is in fucking Star Wars, I don't know where.
- Fuck yes it would.
- 'Cause I don't know where, just popped in.
- Hey guys, why are your weapons old?
- You know what, lasers now, right?
(laughing)
- This is like, my ice tank's gonna fuck up your laser zone.
- We have a star that will kill planets
and you brought a pistol in here.
(laughing)
- Have you seen that guy, your counter?
- Roger.
- I'm gonna see that, I've never played WMDU.
- No, I'm sorry, no, not like the Guyger Counter module,
but it's like built off of the--
- Actual Guyger Counter.
- Wow, yeah, my friend has one of those.
- An actual Guyger Counter is fucking cool sounding too.
- Yeah, it like generates random events
based on like, radio-
- It's like one of those guysky, like crazy ones, right?
- But it's similar to that, yes,
it has like the big fucking rod on the front.
- Yeah, so like it's like kind of an impractical module.
- Oh yeah, absolutely.
- Pretty gimmicky boutique.
- Yeah, that's what you're talking about.
- I guess it's just a game of games.
- I don't mean to keep it.
- Yeah, it's a whole game.
- Early warning system.
- It looked interesting.
- This is not part of the performance,
we all have to leave.
- Yeah, you gotta go.
- Fusion too, they're making progress with Fusion,
that's cool.
- Yeah.
- Go Fusion.
- What is it, fucking science type, Nick?
- This is now Beekman's world.
- Oh, sequencing, I don't know,
I like sequencing with the modular,
just 'cause I'm getting more into like,
percussion in the modular, you know what I mean?
I guess you could do that all with the octa track,
but you wouldn't have the probability stuff.
- Especially the module,
'cause you don't even have to use it
to like just trigger your percussion.
You can use probability gates to your envelopes
or, you know, any reset shit.
- You know what I mean?
- You can start getting really crazy,
you polyrhythmic shit.
- There's probably ways around that too as well, right?
So we'll do that type of stuff,
we're using that still in there,
you know, you're sequencing just the main pattern.
- If you point midi into it,
you could do it in the octa track.
- You know, also there's this track length stuff
which can get pretty intense and polyrhythmic.
When I got that, I was like,
"Oh, I'll never be able to,
"I don't have as many things to trigger."
And his nose immediately, every output was used up
because like resets on LFOs and envelopes, like all that shit.
- Yeah.
- It goes quick.
- I was using most of the channels live
and I don't even have like any of your modules in there,
you know what I mean?
I was just using it to generate events
and resets and goofy shit.
- Yeah, I feel like you should have at least one CV sequencer
in there eventually.
- No, I'm not supposed to.
- Like I was going for sure.
- It does CV too, like it has two channels for note.
That's the other thing too,
you can have those two CV channels like doing their own thing
or you can tie them to one of the gate channels
that are doing some crazy probabilistic shit
or repeats or whatever.
- I said anything coming up,
we could do like modular doing quad stuff, quad sound.
- Yeah.
- Outputs to help do with that yet.
That's what I'm working for
is not the kind of like feature show we're going to do.
Like quad phasing, quad sets.
- So many of the quad mixer with CV I think.
- Well, there's a new key thing, Mel and mixer.
My friends worked on.
- Oh yeah?
- Yeah, the new one, I haven't checked it out yet
though, but I want to see what that's all about.
I have the Qneo and the QNexus I had about those.
But I think they just came out of the mixer from Brian.
It's part of kind of like he worked on that,
engineered that.
- Nice.
- Yeah, that has possibilities,
but yeah, I'd like to do more quad stuff,
modular somehow.
- I do things from rotary knob to swirl things around
or something like that.
That's what I've been looking for.
- The planner can kind of do that, yeah.
- Yeah.
- Like Boogla can, they have some quad stuff
that's part of that system.
- Definitely some ureomol modules though.
- Yes, and they can do that.
- They're all right.
- I'm sure I remember there was an intelligible filter
that could do that.
- They're really weird.
Like it would output CV.
- The Dr. Octo.
- Oh, okay.
- Oh yeah, does the quadrature shit.
- Yeah.
- Sample slicer.
- I like the fuck out of that.
- Oh yeah.
- Yeah.
- Sample slicer.
I dug that for minutes and I no longer have it,
but I miss it.
- You think you're still gonna be using it
once you get your bed box?
- I think so.
- I think it'll be cool together.
- 'Cause it's got its own sound type thing.
It would be nice if they made like a CD quality one,
but I like how you can window and it cross fades
the little slices so you can scan through those.
- Absolutely.
- That's fun.
- What is the quality on it?
- I wanna say like 12 bit, 22.
- Yeah, it's 12 bit.
- It's very cool.
- That's usable.
- Yeah, it sounds good enough.
As I was discussing with Morgan,
it's really a lot better on like full frequency.
You like sort of sample external stuff in,
but I think it just needs like a full sound.
If you just sample base into it,
it'll be super aliased.
- Yeah.
- It's literally like anti aliasing.
- Right.
- Which you can use as an effective.
- Yeah.
- And they tell you like if you want the aliasing
one just a little pass filter it before you send the signal in.
- Yeah, first thing I did when I had that was
send a name and break to it from the computer.
- Oh yeah.
- Started chopping the fuck out of it.
- It kind of works really well.
- Yeah.
This one thing I always liked was the Rex player
chopping a beat.
It's cool to have something in your modular
that can live record some crazy shit you got going on
and then just slice the fuck out of it
and trigger the slices and how, you know,
the length of those slices.
- Yeah.
- Because CV it's pretty fucking, that's on.
- One thing I'd like in a new Octatrack.
- Transient detection slicing like recycled style.
- It's crazy how there isn't much that has topped recycled.
- Yeah.
- In that regard like a shit's what, like 15 year old?
- No, I think.
- Yeah.
- And still like de facto slicer.
- Remember I bought a shitty, shitty Akai S2000
rack mount sample that didn't fucking work very well
just so I could hook recycle up to it
because you know, Apex Twin did it too.
- No, I was 16.
(laughing)
- What were you doing with like just sending like
no data for slice or something?
- Yeah, that's cool.
- Pretty much.
- You could, like there was a program where you could,
yeah, it would hook up over scuzzy via recycle.
So it was really fast at the time.
It like 90s to get shit over there
without MIDI sample dump which takes forever.
So I had horrible zip drive, hell hooked up to it.
- Zip drive.
- I don't miss that shit.
(laughing)
- Now you got your sample slicer as a kid, right?
- Yeah.
- You could see easy 'cause it's like you spoke the build.
- All the SMD stuff is done.
You just put the jacks and the LEDs on it.
- That's awesome.
- Yeah.
- It took like literally under an hour to build it.
- I might have to get another one then.
- This kit format.
Trash measure is the coolest new shit I got recently.
I like it.
It's pretty much the only other filter I got
and I saw this from the Polaris right now.
- Oh, Polaris is.
- Polaris is the three of them up there, right?
- Yeah, I like it.
- I like it.
- Like I mentioned in a previous episode,
I always wanted to get fourth, but not like I said,
I don't need to.
Like I got the Trash Master and that kinda,
it's got a lot of character, you know what I mean?
It does everything with the Polaris,
like it kinda doesn't do, you know what I mean?
Like it can get pretty unique with the tone shaping
and the distortions.
The filter itself is only a band pass.
It's more like a manger than like a filter.
They're normal together, like the filter input
and the distortion input, so you can have both, you know,
going in and out separately.
So if you want something filtered and one thing distorted,
you can do that or if you want your distortion post filter
or pre-filter, it all just depends on how you patch it in there.
- Oh, so it's actually like which one you patch it into,
not like switches.
- Like there's an X here, the top is the filter,
the bottom is the station.
So a lot of functionality builds in there.
The drive has like different tone models,
like ones based on like the tube screamer and all that shit.
It's got a high pass filter built into the distortion circuit.
So like even if you're not nice, you know,
even if you're not messing with the band pass,
you can still activate like the high pass mode
on the distortion stage, scoop out some of that growliness,
you know, and if you're going for like a nice high end fuzz.
Using it all weekend, usually at max gain settings.
(laughing)
Just using it to fucks it up.
I had it like in a feedback patch,
going to the frequency of the filters.
So like, even though it was mainly tweaking the frequency
of it, it was also being fed back into itself,
which was seeing, giving it a little motion, you know.
One thing I definitely learned this year
is feedback patching from you.
I do it all the time now.
'Cause every time I be, how the fuck did you get that sound?
Even like, oh, it's feedback, dude.
What the fuck are you talking about?
I'm like, I don't not do that shit.
Now I do it a lot.
That's one reason why I got so hooked on the modular shit,
dude, 'cause every time I come back to like,
messing with something in software,
I'd be like, I really wish I could feedback this right now.
You know, like, I don't know.
It's just something that took to like immediately
when I started fucking with this shit,
and it's just like, one way how like, based on it,
if I want to keep a monitor on that, you know.
Like, can I feedback this thing?
And get something I like out of it.
I just, I really love how it just can really hang on,
I like things that hang on that edge.
Like, you gotta be careful.
All right, it's gonna dead.
Right on the ledge there, we go,
falling into utter chaos or instability or something.
Yeah, absolutely.
So you can get a lot of like, almost circuit bent type
results out of things that are otherwise pretty stable.
Yeah. You know what I mean?
It's like, yeah, I was doing all kinds of feedback shit
last night.
Like, I had the herb verb feeding back into itself,
doing some weird shit, like the feedback path,
doing some modulation, like going to some
of the different CV inputs.
I had all the filters were feeding back into itself.
Like, one trick I usually do with the players is
I always use the malt outputs for the most part,
but I also patch like the low pass into FM1,
and just like give it a little touch of feed back.
And you know what I mean?
On the frequency, you just goofy shit like that.
I don't know.
You can make a clean filter a lot more.
Absolutely flavorful.
Like the chewing in that FMF1, I almost have to do that stuff
now, because that thing is polite as fuck.
It's like, it's really good on like full program material.
I like it for ambient stuff more.
I would never run like a lead through it.
It's just like, it's so subtle.
Yeah, that's one reason why I like the mutable blind
so much is it's, 'cause you can invert your feedback path
with it and attenuate at the same time.
Oh, sweet.
Yeah, all that shit.
So you can crucial module I feel like for a lot of feedback
passion.
Yeah, I can't remember.
I had some other feedback.
Oh, braids.
I had a feeding back into itself for FM.
I just, I like feedback.
You know, I'm really shit a lot.
But yeah, in a live environment, you can also make your patch
go to shit real quick.
Yeah.
Like I had to sound check like every, everything
that I had going on every time, just to make sure.
Just into traveling, like, you know, the knobs.
The attenuation knobs are something that moved a little bit
and everything gets fucked up.
Oh yeah, this was new to ever other missionists.
Not too exciting.
It's just another noise engineering module.
It's a VCA/envelope.
I think it was the 909.
He fashioned it off to the VCA on the 909 symbols.
So like it doesn't close like a typical circuit.
It kind of like chokes the signal.
And then like, so you get like this weird aliasing
as like the envelope or the VCA rather is closing.
And you can control that VCA with the built-in envelope,
sending like the screechy feedback shit I had through it
just because the aliasing is nice.
Yeah, I'm starting to get a lot of noise engineering shit
out of nowhere.
Yeah, I was doing a lot of like no input shit also.
Like even the herb herb, I had it on like the edge
of self-oscillating and shit and had nothing running
into it except for itself.
And I would mix in and out of itself.
So he's just like self-oscillating here.
And then sometimes we're running out
and routing into itself and like going crazy and shit.
But I wasn't using it as an effect.
Because I always liked that aspect of it,
but I didn't like it too much as an effect.
You know, so I was like, fucking, I'm gonna get it again.
But this time just use it as like its own
standalone instrument and not necessarily an effect
on anything else.
Do we mention Sean was with us?
I think we did.
Yeah, Sean dimensions.
Okay.
Always physical form right now.
(laughing)
His spirit is elsewhere.
Traveling planes.
Still laying in the couch.
(laughing)
I see the bag.
Working reaction skills are getting much better.
(laughing)
Okay, we're with Sean dimensions, Samuel Ocarina.
Special guest.
(laughing)
Did you hear the new Dr. Octagon?
There's a new one?
Yeah.
I knew to hear the things.
Oh, I knew you were about that.
I haven't really good.
Yeah, I enjoyed it.
I know, the original was, yeah.
I loved that.
It was amazing.
I was popping up a lot recently.
Blue flowers.
Half alligator shortcut.
(laughing)
He's so amazing.
Yeah, it's amazing.
You know, what do you like that dude?
Seriously.
In the podcast.
Yeah, cool.
(laughing)
I'm thinking all right.
(upbeat music)
(music)